# Machine Learning and Neural Networks Model

The [MNIST](http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/) database (Modified National Institute of Standards and Technology database) is a large database of handwritten digits that is commonly used for training various image processing systems. [Neural Networks and Deep Learning](http://neuralnetworksanddeeplearning.com/index.html) is a very good on-line book that introduces machine learning and neural network using MNIST database. Howerve, how to build a neural network model for a real problem is a question asked by most people - for MNIST database, although the 784 input nodes and 10 output is commonly accepted, the number of hidden layers and hidden nodes is an open question. Many models are proposed. Their performances are tested.  When I look at these models, I feel all of them are focused are on how to improve the accuracy of test and how to train the model using less time and small size of samples. But it is hard to see the relationship between model's infrastructure (the number of hidden layers and hidden nodes) and the real problem we want to solve.

However, although I cannot say which model is the best to recognize hand writing digits, a very specific real problem, I find neural network model is used to solve a general type of problem, called object lassification, and the recognition of hand writing digits is one of them.

Object classification is a very common problem we need to solve everyday. For example, is a tennis player is a good player? Is it a classical music or an R&B? Is the author of a novel born before 1960 by just reading the novel without any information about its author. For our digital-hand-writing recognition problem, the question is which number the digital image represents? 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9?